# What is Exonum 

This page describes the common overview over Exonum features and possibilities. 
It outlines why blockchain may be useful to your application and point out the 
difference between Exonum and other distributed ledger solutions. 

## Why blockchain? 

Using blockchain as data storage brings new key abilities to the your 
application. 

1. History saving. As the blockchain saves all transactions that change data 
state, we can always restore all history for every item in the data storage. 
2. Immutability. Data cannot be changed retroactively. No old transactions can 
be replaced or removed. 
3. Distribution. Every node has its own copy of blockchain. If some nodes would 
be broken, the network itself will prolong its activity. 
4. Consistency. New changes to data storage are approved by consensus of nodes. 
All nodes have just one blockchain state. If a node falls far behind it can 
easily and unequivocally reload new blocks. 

To get more info about blockchain structure, nodes, blocks and transactions, you 
may refer to **TODO: link. read more about blockchain. Design overview?** 

Exonum builds a partly private blockchain. It means that only the limited list 
of nodes can generate new blocks. Such approach is reasonable if there is a 
certain authority (or some predefined authorities) which should control the 
network. For example, if multiple companies should have access to the common 
data registry, the list of that companies is open and fixed. Although there is 
no assured fidelity to any particular node, all users can trust the network as a 
whole. 

The nodes allowed to build blocks are called validators. They gather business 
transactions generated by other nodes and clients and generate new block. 
Validators check every transaction and decide which of them should be applied to 
the real data storage. Normally there should be 4-15 validators. 

Validators sign every block. Consensus between validators is necessary for the 
new block to be approved; so, nobody can create a fake or parallel version of 
the blockchain. 

## Exonum features 

Our framework gives additional instruments for easy and effective blockchain 
use. 

### Smart contracts 

Exonum allows uniting your business logic with blockchain advantages. As it 
works with "data storage" and "transactions" on the high level of abstraction, 
you may implement any functionality you need. For now, the custom logic should 
be included in the built binaries and so distributed among nodes. 

The common model for Exonum projects is the same as with relational databases. 
To start a new project, you should implement the folowing pieces of code: 

1. Data Storage schema; 
2. list of the allowed transactions; 
3. the logic for each transaction type. 

Just as a Data Storage schema represents data tables in relational databases, 
transactions implementations stand for stored functions. 

You may refer to our demos and tutorials that show the process of building 
project step by step: **TODO: link to tutorials** 

### Byzantine Consensus 

Exonum uses custom modification of Byzantine Fault-Tolerance (BFT) Consensus 
between validators. The network based on BFT consensus would proceed with a 
correct work even if up to 1/3 validators are hacked, broken or just turned off. 
If malefactor takes control over any node (or several nodes), it can not break 
the data or even stop the service. If some validators are stopped for the 
maintenance, the network behaves correctly. 

Compared with other distributed ledger frameworks, our version of Consensus 
algorithm removes any centrality from the service. There is no single point, 
whose brokedown or removal may stop all the network. The whole process of block 
generation is distributed between validators. 

### REST API 

Exonum Core provides a REST API for external processes communicate with the 
blockchain. API is written on [IRON](http://ironframework.io/) and is easily 
extendable. You may add necessary API endpoints with any functions you want. 

### Lightweight clients and verification proofs 

Usually blockchain nodes need all blockchain history to check if the data from 
outer nodes is correct. The two basic variants for lightweight clients are 
checking whole blockchain by itself or trust other node. 

Exonum introduces the proofs verification procedure instead. Proofs verification 
mechanizm allows clients to check the data received from other nodes even if the 
client do not hold all blockchain. That is, lightweight clients may hold only 
the data user is interested in, and ask any other data from the network if 
needed. 

### Bitcoin anchoring 

To ensure additional resistance to data fraud, Exonum includes an anchoring 
service. This service publishes Exonum block hash to Bitcoin blockchain with 
some timeout. 

After bitcoin transaction with the actual Exonum blockchain state gets enough 
confirmations at the Bitcoin blockchain, it is almost impossible to be changed 
or removed. Even if all validators conspire and create fake version of the 
Exonum blockchain, any other node can compare its state hash with one already 
published in the bitcoin network and raise an alarm. 

With anchoring service, old transactions replacement persistence is increased up 
to Bitcoin blockchain endurance. 

### Technical characteristics 

The Core is written on the RUST that is safety-oriented language. It is compiled 
for LLVM, so it can be built for almost every operational system. From other 
side, compiled code is quick as native one. 

The service built over the Exonum Core can handle 7000 transactions per second, 
with a clearance time about 2.5 sec. Normally you may want to generate new block 
each 1-10 seconds. The recommended hardware requirements for a validator are: 

- **TODO: system requirements for validator** 
- hdd ? 
- network ? 
- CPU ? 
- RAM ? 

Exonum Core is released under the Apache 2.0 open source license. You 
may use it free with respect to the license conditions. 

## Use cases 

**TODO: fill** 

